Animal Skin:
Prerequisites: animal instinct

Your proficiency in unarmored defense increases to expert. When you are raging and unarmored, your skin transforms into a thick hide. You gain a +2 item bonus to AC (+3 if you have the greater juggernaut class feature). The thickness of your hide gives you a Dexterity modifier cap to your AC of +3. This item bonus to AC is cumulative with armor potency runes on your explorer's clothing, mage armor, and bracers of armor.

Attack Of Opurtunity:
Actions: Reaction
Traits: Barbarian, Champion, Magus, Swashbuckler

Trigger: A creature within your reach uses a manipulate action or a move action, makes a ranged attack, or leaves a square during a move action it’s using.

You lash out at a foe that leaves an opening. Make a melee Strike against the triggering creature. If your attack is a critical hit and the trigger was a manipulate action, you disrupt that action. This Strike doesn’t count toward your multiple attack penalty, and your multiple attack penalty doesn’t apply to this Strike.

Brutal Bully:
Prerequisites: expert in Athletics

You push your foes around and leave bruises. While raging, when you successfully Disarm, Grapple, Shove, or Trip a foe, you deal that foe bludgeoning damage equal to your Strength modifier; add this to the damage from a critical success to Trip.

Cleave:
Actions: Reaction
Traits: Barbarian, Rage

Trigger: Your melee Strike kills a creature or knocks it unconscious, and another foe is adjacent to that creature.

You swing clear through one foe and into another. Make a melee Strike against the second foe.

Dragon's Breath Rage:
Actions: 2
Traits: Arcane, Barbarian, Concentrate, Evocation, Rage

Prerequisites: dragon instinct
Requirements: You haven’t used this ability since you last Raged.

You breathe deeply and exhale powerful energy in a 30-foot cone or 60-foot line, dealing 1d6 damage per level. The area and damage type match those of your dragon (see Table 3–4. If you used this ability in the last hour, the area and the damage are halved (15-foot cone or 30-foot line; 1d6 damage for every 2 levels). Each creature in the area must attempt a basic Reflex save.

Table 3-4: Dragon Instincts
Dragon Type	Category	Breath Weapon
Black		Chromatic	Line of acid
Blue		Chromatic	Line of electricity
Green		Chromatic	Cone of poison
Red		Chromatic	Cone of fire
White		Chromatic	Cone of cold
Brass		Metallic	Line of fire
Bronze		Metallic	Line of electricity
Copper		Metallic	Line of acid
Gold		Metallic	Cone of fire
Silver		Metallic	Cone of cold

Giant's Stature:
Actions: 1
Traits: Barabrian, Polymorph, Primal, Rage, Transmutation

Prerequisites: giant instinct
Requirements: You are Medium or smaller.

You grow to incredible size. You become Large, increasing your reach by 5 feet and gaining the clumsy 1 condition until you stop raging. Your equipment grows with you.

Spirit's Interference:
Actions: 1
Traits: Barbarian, Divine, Necromancy, Rage

Prerequisites: spirit instinct

You call forth protective spirits to ward off ranged attacks. Until your rage ends, anyone making a ranged attack against you must succeed at a DC 5 flat check or the attack misses with no effect.

Dirge Of Doom:
You learn the dirge of doom composition cantrip, which frightens your enemies and keeps them from fully recovering from their fear.

Harmonize:
Actions: 1
Traits: Bard, Concentrate, Manipulate, Metamagic

Prerequisites: maestro muse

You can perform multiple compositions simultaneously, typically by performing in multiple ways at the same time, using special vocal techniques to double your voice, or creating occult magic that replicates your song or speech. If your next action is to cast a composition, it becomes a harmonized composition. Unlike a normal composition, a harmonized composition doesn’t end if you cast another composition, and you can cast another composition on the same turn as a harmonized one. Casting another harmonized composition ends any harmonized composition you already have in effect.

Steady Spellcasting:
You don’t lose spells easily. If a reaction would disrupt your spellcasting action, attempt a DC 15 flat check. If you succeed, your action isn’t disrupted.

Litany Against Wrath:
Prerequisites: devotion spells; tenets of good

You excoriate a foe for its wrath against goodly creatures. You can cast the litany against wrath devotion spell. Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.

Loyal Warhorse:
Prerequisites: divine ally (steed)

You and your mount have grown closer, and your loyalty to each other is unbreakable. The mount you gained through the divine ally class feature is now a mature animal companion. In addition, your mount never attacks you, even if it is magically compelled to do so.

Shield Warden:
Prerequisites: [Champion] divine ally (shield); [Champion] tenets of good; [Fighter] Shield Block

You use your shield to protect your allies. When you have a shield raised, you can use your Shield Block reaction when an attack is made against an ally adjacent to you. If you do, the shield prevents that ally from taking damage instead of preventing you from taking damage, following the normal rules for Shield Block.

Smite Evil:
Actions: 1
Traits: Champion

Prerequisites: divine ally (blade); tenets of good

Your blade ally becomes an even more powerful tool against evildoers. Select one foe you can see. Until the start of your next turn, your Strikes with the weapon your blade ally inhabits against that foe deal an extra 4 good damage, increasing to 6 if you have master proficiency with this weapon.

If the foe attacks one of your allies, the duration extends to the end of that foe’s next turn. If the foe continues to attack your allies each turn, the duration continues to extend.

Cast Down:
Actions: 1
Traits: Cleric, Concentrate, Metamagic

Prerequisites: harmful font or healing font

The sheer force of your faith can bring a foe crashing down. If the next action you use is to cast harm or heal to damage one creature, the target is knocked prone if it takes any damage from the spell. If the target critically fails its save against the spell, it also takes a –10-foot status penalty to its Speed for 1 minute.

Divine Weapon:
Actions: Free Action
Traits: Cleric

Frequency: once per turn
Trigger: You finish Casting a Spell using one of your divine spell slots on your turn.

You siphon residual spell energy into a weapon you’re wielding. Until the end of your turn, the weapon deals an additional 1d4 force damage. You can instead deal an additional 1d6 damage of an alignment type that matches one of your deity’s alignment components. As usual for aligned damage, this can damage only creatures of the opposite alignment.

Selective Energy:
As you call down divine power, you can prevent some enemies from benefiting or some allies from being hurt. When you cast a version of harm or heal that has an area, you can designate a number of creatures equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum 1) that are not targeted by the spell.

Green Empathy:
You have a connection to flora that allows you to communicate with them on a rudimentary level. You can ask questions of, receive answers from, and use the Diplomacy skill with plants and fungus.

Insect Shape:
Prerequisites: Wild Shape

Your understanding of life expands, allowing you to mimic a wider range of creatures. Add the forms in insect form to your wild shape list. Whenever you use wild shape to polymorph into the non-flying insect form listed in pest form, the duration is 24 hours instead of 10 minutes.

Storm Retribution:
Actions: Reaction
Traits: Druid

Prerequisites: storm order; tempest surge order spell
Trigger: An opponent adjacent to you critically hits you with a melee weapon or melee unarmed attack.
Requirements: You have at least 1 available Focus Point.

You lash out, directing a burst of storming fury toward a creature that has harmed you. You cast tempest surge on the triggering opponent and push that creature, moving it 5 feet away from you if it fails its Reflex save, or 10 feet if it critically fails. This movement is forced movement.

Advanced Weapon Training:
You’ve studied the art of wielding an advanced weapon. Choose a weapon group. You gain proficiency with all advanced weapons in that group as if they were martial weapons of their weapon group.

Advantageous Assault:
Actions: 1
Traits: Fighter, Press

When an enemy's movement is compromised, you deliver a more deadly blow. Make a Strike against a creature that is grabbed, prone, or restrained. You gain a circumstance bonus to damage on this Strike equal to the number of weapon damage dice, or that number + 2 if you're wielding the weapon in two hands. The Strike gains the following failure effect.

Failure You deal damage to the target equal to the number of weapon damage dice, or that number + 2 if you're wielding the weapon in two hands. This damage has the same damage type as the weapon.

Disarming Stance:
Actions: 1
Traits: Fighter, Stance

Prerequisites: trained in Athletics
Requirements: You are wielding only a single one-handed melee weapon and have your other hand or hands free.

You adopt a fencing stance that improves your control over your weapon. While you are in this stance, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Athletics checks to Disarm and a +2 circumstance bonus to your Reflex DC when defending against checks to Disarm you. In addition, you can attempt to Disarm creatures up to two sizes larger than you.

Furious Focus:
Prerequisites: Power Attack

You’ve learned to maintain your balance even when swinging furiously. When you make a Power Attack with a melee weapon you’re wielding in two hands, it counts as one attack toward your multiple attack penalty instead of two.

Guardian's Deflection (Fighter):
Actions: Reaction
Traits: Fighter

Trigger: An ally within your melee reach is hit by an attack, you can see the attacker, and the ally gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to AC would turn the critical hit into a hit or the hit into a miss.
Requirements: You are wielding a single one-handed melee weapon and have your other hand or hands free.

You use your weapon to deflect the attack against your ally, granting a +2 circumstance bonus to their Armor Class against the triggering attack. This turns the triggering critical hit into a hit, or the triggering hit into a miss.

Reflexive Shield:
You can use your shield to fend off the worst of area effects and other damage. When you Raise your Shield, you gain your shield's circumstance bonus to Reflex saves. If you have the Shield Block reaction, damage you take as a result of a Reflex save can trigger that reaction, even if the damage isn't physical damage.

Revealing Stab:
Actions: 2
Traits: Fighter

Requirements: You are wielding a melee weapon that deals piercing damage.

You drive your piercing weapon into an imperceptible foe, revealing its location to your allies. Make a Strike with the required melee weapon. You don't have to attempt a flat check to hit a concealed creature, and you have to succeed at only a DC 5 flat check to target a hidden creature. If you hit and deal damage, you can drive the required weapon into a corporeal target, revealing its current position. You Release the weapon, and it becomes lodged in the target. If the target is concealed, other creatures don't need to succeed at a flat check to hit it. If the target is hidden, other creatures have to succeed at only a DC 5 flat check to target it. The creatures need to be able to see your weapon to gain any of these benefits, and the target can't become undetected to anyone who sees your weapon. If the target is invisible, the weapon remains visible while lodged in it.

This benefit lasts until the weapon is removed from the creature. An adjacent creature or the target can remove the weapon with 2 Interact actions.

Shatter Defenses:
Actions: 1
Traits: Fighter, Press

Requirements: A frightened creature is in your melee reach.

Your offense exploits your enemy's fear. Make a melee Strike against a frightened creature. If you hit and deal damage, the target becomes flat-footed until its frightened condition ends. If the target was already flat-footed to you when you damaged it with this Strike, it can't reduce its frightened value below 1 until the start of your next turn.

Triple Shot:
Prerequisites Double Shot

You can quickly fire multiple shots with greater control. When you use Double Shot, you can make the attacks against the same target. You can add an additional action to Double Shot to make three ranged Strikes instead of two. If you do, the penalty is –4. All attacks count toward your multiple attack penalty, but the penalty doesn’t increase until after you’ve made all of them.

Abundant Step:
Prerequisites: incredible movement; ki spells

You can teleport yourself a short distance. You gain the abundant step ki spell. Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.

Crane Flutter:
Actions: Reaction
Traits: Monk

Prerequisites: Crane Stance
Trigger: You are targeted with a melee attack by an attacker you can see.
Requirements: You are in Crane Stance

You interpose your arm between yourself and your opponent. Your circumstance bonus to AC from Crane Stance increases to +3 against the triggering attack. If the attack misses you, you can immediately make a crane wing Strike against the attacker at a –2 penalty, even if the attacker isn’t within your reach.

Dragon Roar:
Actions: 1
Traits: Auditory, Emotion, Fear, Mental, Monk

Prerequisites: Dragon Stance
Requirements: You are in Dragon Stance

You bellow, instilling fear in your enemies. Enemies within a 15-foot emanation must succeed at a Will save against your Intimidation DC or be frightened 1 (frightened 2 on a critical failure). When a creature frightened by the roar begins its turn adjacent to you, it can’t reduce its frightened value below 1 on that turn. Your first attack that hits a frightened creature after you roar and before the end of your next turn gains a +4 circumstance bonus to damage.

After you use Dragon Roar, you can’t use it again for 1d4 rounds. Its effects end immediately if you leave Dragon Stance. Creatures in the area of your roar are then temporarily immune for 1 minute.

Ki Blast:
Prerequisites: ki spells

You can unleash an impactful cone of force by channeling your ki. You gain the ki blast ki spell. Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.

Mountain Stronghold:
Actions: 1
Traits: Monk

Prerequisites: Mountain Stance
Requirements: You are in Mountain Stance.

You focus on your connection to the earth and call upon the mountain to block attacks against you. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to AC until the beginning of your next turn.

Special: If you have this feat, the Dexterity modifier cap to your AC while you’re in Mountain Stance increases from +0 to +1.

Tiger Slash:
Actions: 2
Traits: Monk

Prerequisites: Tiger Stance
Requirements: You are in Tiger Stance.

You make a fierce swipe with both hands. Make a tiger claw Strike. It deals two extra weapon damage dice (three extra dice if you’re 14th level or higher), and you can push the target 5 feet away as if you had successfully Shoved them. If the attack is a critical success and deals damage, add your Strength modifier to the persistent bleed damage from your tiger claw.

Water Step:
You can Stride across liquid and surfaces that don’t support your weight. This benefit lasts only during your movement. If you end your movement on a surface that can’t support you, you fall in or it collapses as normal.

Whirling Throw:
Actions: 1
Traits: Monk

Requirements: You have a creature grabbed or restrained.

You propel your grabbed or restrained foe a great distance. You can throw the creature any distance up to 10 feet, plus 5 feet × your Strength modifier. If you successfully throw the creature, it takes bludgeoning damage equal to your Strength modifier plus 1d6 per 10 feet you threw it.

Attempt an Athletics check against the foe’s Fortitude DC. You take a –2 circumstance penalty to your check if the target is one size larger than you and a –4 circumstance penalty if it’s larger than that. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your check if the target is one size smaller than you and a +4 circumstance bonus if it’s smaller than that.

Critical Success: You throw the creature the desired distance and it lands prone.
Success: You throw the creature the desired distance.
Failure: You don’t throw the creature.
Critical Failure: You don’t throw the creature, and it’s no longer grabbed or restrained by you.

Wolf Drag:
Actions: 2
Traits: Monk

Prerequisites: Wolf Stance
Requirements: You are in Wolf Stance.

You rip your enemy off their feet. Make a wolf jaw Strike. Your wolf jaw gains the fatal d12 trait for this Strike, and if the attack succeeds, you knock the target prone.

Mature Animal Companion (Ranger):
Prerequisites: Animal Companion

Your animal companion grows up, becoming a mature animal companion and gaining additional capabilities. If you have the Hunt Prey action, your animal companion assaults the prey even without your orders. During an encounter, even if you don't use the Command an Animal action, your animal companion can still use 1 action that round on your turn to Stride toward or Strike your prey.

Quick Snares:
Prerequisites: expert in Crafting; Snare Specialist

You can rig a snare in only moments. You can Craft snares that normally take 1 minute to Craft with 3 Interact actions, even if you haven’t prepared them.

Skirmish Strike:
Actions: 1
Traits: Flourish, Ranger, Rogue

Your feet and weapon move in tandem. Either Step and then Strike, or Strike and then Step.

Snap Shot:
You’ve learned to react with ranged weapons when a creature is in close quarters. You can use a reaction that normally allows you to make a melee weapon Strike to instead make a ranged weapon Strike. You must be Striking an adjacent target. If necessary for the reaction’s trigger, you treat your ranged weapon as if it had a reach of 5 feet. If the reaction has other requirements, such as wielding a specific kind of weapon, Snap Shot doesn’t allow you to ignore them; it allows you only to replace a melee weapon Strike with a ranged weapon Strike.

Swift Tracker:
Prerequisites: expert in Survival; Experienced Tracker

Your keen eyes catch signs of passage even when you’re moving. You can move at your full Speed while you Track. If you have master proficiency in Survival, you don’t need to attempt a new Survival check every hour while Tracking. If you have legendary proficiency in Survival, you can use another exploration activity while Tracking.

If you roll Survival for initiative while tracking your hunted prey, when you start your first turn of the encounter, you can Stride toward your hunted prey as a free action.

Gang Up:
You and your allies harry an opponent in concert. Any enemy is flat-footed against your melee attacks due to flanking as long as the enemy is within both your reach and your ally’s. Your allies must still flank an enemy for it to be flat-footed to them.

Light Step:
You aren’t bothered by tricky footing. When you Stride or Step, you can ignore difficult terrain.

Twist The Knife:
Actions: 1
Traits: Rogue

Requirements: Your last action was a melee Strike that dealt sneak attack damage to a flat-footed target.

After stabbing your opponent in a weak spot, you tear the wound open. You deal persistent bleed damage to the target equal to your number of sneak attack damage dice.

Advanced Bloodline:
Prerequisites: bloodline spell

You have studied your bloodline to learn the secrets of its magic. You gain the advanced bloodline spell associated with your bloodline. Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.

Spell Penetration:
You’ve studied ways of overcoming the innate magical resistance that dragons, otherworldly beings, and certain other powerful creatures have. Any creature that has a status bonus to saving throws against magic reduces that bonus by 1 against your spells.