Dragon's Rage Wings:
Actions: 1
Traits: Barbarian, Morph, Primal, Rage, Transmutation

Prerequisites: dragon instinct

You sprout dragon wings from your back of the same color as your chosen dragon. While you are raging, you gain a fly Speed equal to your land Speed. If you are flying when your rage ends, you start to fall but the transformation only completes at the last moment, so you take no damage from the fall and land standing up.

Furious Grab:
Actions: 1
Traits: Barbarian, Rage

Requirements: Your last action was a successful Strike, and either you have a hand free or your Strike used a grapple weapon.

You grab your foe while it’s distracted by your attack. The foe you hit becomes grabbed, as if you had succeeded at an Athletics check to Grapple the foe.

Predator's Pounce:
Actions: 1
Traits: Barabrian, Flourish, Open, Rage

Prerequisites: animal instinct
Requirements: You are unarmored or wearing light armor.

You close the distance to your prey in a blur, pouncing on the creature before it can react. You Stride up to your Speed and make a Strike at the end of your movement.

Spirit's Wrath:
Actions: 1
Traits: Attack, Barbarian, Concentrate, Rage

Prerequisites: spirit instinct

You call forth an ephemeral apparition, typically the ghost of an ancestor or a nature spirit, which takes the form of a wisp. The spirit wisp makes a melee wisp rush unarmed attack against an enemy within 120 feet of you. The wisp’s attack modifier is equal to your proficiency bonus for martial weapons plus your Strength modifier plus a +2 item bonus, and it applies the same circumstance and status bonuses and penalties that you have. On a hit, the wisp deals damage equal to 4d8 plus your Constitution modifier. The damage is your choice of negative or positive damage; don’t apply your Rage damage or your weapon specialization damage, but circumstance and status bonuses and penalties that would also affect the wisp’s damage apply. If your wisp’s Strike is a critical hit, the target becomes frightened 1. This attack uses and counts toward your multiple attack penalty as if you were the one attacking.

Titan's Stature:
Prerequisites: giant instinct; Giant's Stature

You grow to even greater size. When using Giant’s Stature, you can instead become Huge (increasing your reach by 10 feet if you were Medium or smaller) while you are raging. You have the clumsy 1 condition as long as you are Huge.

Eclectic Polymath:
Prerequisites: Esoteric Polymath

Your flexible mind can quickly shift spells. If you add a spell to your repertoire during your daily preparations using Esoteric Polymath, when you prepare again, you can choose to keep the new spell from Esoteric Polymath in your repertoire and instead lose access to another spell of the same level in your repertoire.

Inspirational Focus:
Your connection to your muse has granted you unusual focus. If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points since the last time you Refocused, you recover 2 Focus Points when you Refocus instead of 1.

Affliction Mercy:
Prerequisites: Mercy

The divine grace that flows through you grants reprieve from an affliction. When you use Mercy, you can instead attempt to counteract a curse, disease, or poison.

Aura Of Faith:
Prerequisites: tenets of good

You radiate an aura of pure belief that imbues your attacks and those of nearby allies with holy power. Your Strikes deal an extra 1 good damage against evil creatures. Also, each good-aligned ally within 15 feet gains this benefit on their first Strike that hits an evil creature each round.

Blade Of Justice:
Actions: 2
Traits: Champion

Prerequisites: tenets of good

You call upon divine power and make a weapon or unarmed Strike against a foe you have witnessed harming an ally or innocent. The Strike deals two extra weapon damage dice if the target of your Strike is evil. Whether or not the target is evil, you can convert all the physical damage from the attack into good damage, and if you are a paladin, the Strike applies all effects that normally apply on a Retributive Strike (such as divine smite).

Champion's Sacrifice:
Prerequisites: tenets of good

You can suffer so that others might live. You can cast the champion’s sacrifice devotion spell. Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.

Divine Wall:
Requirements: You are wielding a shield.

You use your shield to harry your enemies, preventing them from stepping away from or around you. All spaces adjacent to you are difficult terrain for your enemies.

Lasting Doubt:
Prerequisites: redeemer cause

When you cast doubt upon your foes, the effect lasts longer than usual. After being enfeebled 2 by your Glimpse of Redemption, the foe is enfeebled 1 for 1 minute. If you have Weight of Guilt, after being stupefied 2 by your Glimpse of Redemption, the foe is stupefied 1 for 1 minute or until the flat check from stupefied causes it to lose a spell, whichever comes first.

Liberating Stride:
Prerequisites: liberator cause

Instead of you taking a Step at the end of your Liberating Step, the triggering ally can Stride up to half their Speed. Even if you have exalt, only the triggering ally gains this benefit.

Defensive Recovery:
Actions: 1
Traits: Cleric, Concentrate, Metamagic

Prerequisites: harmful font or healing font

Your faith provides temporary protection in addition to healing. If the next action you use is to cast harm or heal on a single target and the target regains Hit Points from the spell, it also gains a +2 status bonus to AC and saving throws for 1 round.

Domain Focus:
Prerequisites: one or more domain spells

Your devotion to your deity’s domains grows greater, and so does the power granted to you. If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points since the last time you Refocused, you recover 2 Focus Points when you Refocus instead of 1.

Emblazon Antimagic:
Prerequisites: Emblazon Armament

Your deity's symbol protects against offensive magic. When you Emblazon an Armament, you can choose from the following effects instead of the effects listed in that feat. These effects have the same restrictions as the base options.
- Shield: When the wielder has the shield raised, they gain the shield's circumstance bonus to saving throws against magic, and they can use Shield Block against damage from their enemies' spells.
- Weapon: When the weapon's wielder critically hits with the weapon, they can attempt to counteract a spell on their target, using half their level, rounded up, as the counteract level. If they attempt to do so, the emblazoned symbol immediately disappears.

Shared Replenishment:
Prerequisites: Replenishment of War

When your deity blesses your warlike acts, you can extend that favor to your allies. You can grant the temporary Hit Points from Replenishment of War to an ally within 10 feet instead of gaining them yourself. You can grant these temporary Hit Points to a different ally each time, meaning you might be able to grant them to multiple creatures in a single turn.

Dragon Shape:
Prerequisites: Soaring Shape

You can take on the form of some of the world’s most fearsome creatures. Add the forms listed in dragon form to your wild shape list. Whenever you’re polymorphed into another form using wild shape, you gain resistance 5 to your choice of acid, cold, electricity, fire, or poison.

Green Tongue:
Prerequisites: Green Empathy

You share a special kinship with all things green and living. You (and your leshy familiar, if you have one) are constantly under the effects of speak with plants. Most non-creature plants recognize you as a druid of the leaf order and are friendly to you.

Primal Focus:
Your connection to nature is particularly strong, and the spirits of nature flock around you, helping you replenish your focus. If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points since the last time you Refocused, you recover 2 Focus Points when you Refocus instead of 1.

Primal Summons:
Prerequisites: Call of the Wild

Whenever you summon an ally, you can empower it with the elemental power of air, earth, fire, or water. You gain the primal summons order spell.

Brutal Finish:
Actions: 1
Traits: Fighter, Press

Requirements: You are wielding a melee weapon in two hands.

Your final blow can make an impact even if it rebounds off a foe’s defenses. Make a Strike with the required weapon. After the Strike, your turn ends. The Strike deals one extra weapon damage die, or two extra weapon damage dice if you’re at least 18th level. The Strike also gains the following failure effect.

Failure: You deal damage equal to one weapon damage die of the required weapon. Increase this to two dice if you’re at least 18th level.

Dueling Dance (Fighter):
Actions: 1
Traits: Fighter, Stance

Prerequisites: Dueling Parry (Fighter)
Requirements: You are wielding only a single one-handed melee weapon and have your other hand or hands free.

Using your free hand as pivot and balance, you both attack and defend with your weapon. While you are in this stance, you constantly have the benefits of Dueling Parry. 

Flinging Shove:
Prerequisites: Aggressive Block, or Brutish Shove

Increase the distance you Shove your opponent with Aggressive Block or Brutish Shove to 10 feet on a success or 20 feet on a critical success. When you use Aggressive Block, you can choose whether the target is flat-footed or Shoved. When you make a Brutish Shove, you also Shove the target 5 feet on a failure.

Improved Dueling Riposte:
Prerequisites: Dueling Riposte

Your weapon whirls and darts, striking foes whenever the opportunity presents itself. At the start of each of your turns, you gain an additional reaction that you can use only to make a Dueling Riposte. You can use this extra reaction even if you are not benefiting from Dueling Parry.

Incredible Ricochet:
Actions: 1
Traits: Concentrate, Fighter, Press

Prerequisites: Incredible Aim

After your first shot singles out your opponent's position, you direct another that ricochets around obstacles and strikes unerringly. Make a ranged weapon Strike against a creature you previously attacked this turn. You ignore the target's concealed condition and all cover.

Lunging Stance:
Actions: 1
Traits: Fighter, Stance

Prerequisites: attack of opportunity; Lunge
Requirements: You are wielding a melee weapon.

Your body coiled to strike, you can lash out at distant enemies. While you are in this stance, you can use Attack of Opportunity against a creature that is outside your reach but within the reach you would have with a Lunge. If you do, you increase your range with the Strike by 5 feet.

Paragon's Guard:
Actions: 1
Traits: Fighter, Stance

Requirements: You are wielding a shield.

Once you've had a moment to set your stance, you always have your shield ready without a thought. While you are in this stance, you constantly have your shield raised as if you'd used the Raise a Shield action, as long as you meet that action's requirements.

Spring Attack:
Actions: 1
Traits: Fighter, Press

Requirements: You are adjacent to an enemy.

Springing away from one foe, you Strike at another. Stride up to your Speed, but you must end that movement within melee reach of a different enemy. At the end of your movement, make a melee Strike against an enemy now within reach. You can use Spring Attack while Burrowing, Climbing, Flying, or Swimming instead of Striding if you have the corresponding movement type.

Diamond Soul:
You have fortified your body and mind against eldritch effects. You gain a +1 status bonus to saving throws against magic.

Disrupt Ki:
Actions: 2
Traits: Monk, Negative

Make an unarmed Strike. If it deals damage to a living creature, you block that creature’s inner life force. The creature takes 2d6 persistent negative damage and is enfeebled 1 until the persistent damage ends. If you’re 18th level or higher, this deals 3d6 persistent negative damage instead.

Improved Knockback:
Prerequisites: master in Athletics

When you successfully Shove a creature, increase both the distance you can push the creature and the distance you can move to follow along with the target by 5 feet on a success or 10 feet on a critical success. If you push the target into an obstacle, it takes bludgeoning damage equal to 6 plus your Strength modifier, or 8 plus your Strength modifier if you have legendary proficiency in Athletics.

Meditative Focus:
Prerequisites: ki spells

Your meditation is so effective that you can achieve a deep focus. If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points since the last time you Refocused, you recover 2 Focus Points when you Refocus instead of 1.

Stance Savant (Monk):
Actions: Free Action
Traits: Monk

Trigger: You roll initiative.

You enter a stance without a thought. Use an action that has the stance trait.

Distracting Shot:
The sheer power of your attacks, or the overwhelming number of them, leaves an enemy flustered. If you critically hit your hunted prey with a ranged weapon, or hit it at least twice on the same turn with a ranged weapon, it’s flat-footed until the start of your next turn.

Double Prey:
You can focus on two foes at once, hunting both of them down. When you use the Hunt Prey action, you can pick two creatures as your prey.

Lightening Snares:
Prerequisites: master in Crafting; Quick Snares; Snare Specialist

You can rig a trap with incredible speed. When you create a snare that normally takes 1 minute to Craft, you can Craft it using a single Interact action instead.

Second Sting:
Actions: 1
Traits: Press Ranger

Requirements: You are wielding two melee weapons, each in a different hand.

You read your prey’s movements and transform them into openings, so failures with one weapon set up glancing blows with the other. Make a melee Strike with one of the required weapons against your hunted prey. The Strike gains the following failure effect.

Failure: You deal the damage the other required weapon would have dealt on a hit, excluding all damage dice. (This removes dice from weapon runes, spells, and special abilities, not just weapon damage dice.)

Side By Side (Ranger):
Prerequisites: an animal companion

You and your animal companion fight in tandem, distracting your foes and keeping them off balance. Whenever you and your animal companion are adjacent to the same foe, you are both flanking that foe with each other, regardless of your actual positions.

Critical Debilitation:
Prerequisites: Debilitating Strike

Your debilitations are especially effective on your most powerful attacks. Whenever you critically succeed at an attack roll against an enemy and use Debilitating Strike, add the following debilitation to the list you can choose from.
- Debilitation: The target attempts a Fortitude save against your class DC with the following effects.


Critical Success: The target is unaffected.
Success: The target is slowed 1 until the end of your next turn.
Failure: The target is slowed 2 until the end of your next turn.
Critical Failure: The target is paralyzed until the end of your next turn.

Fantastic Leap:
Actions: 2
Traits: Rogue

You launch yourself through the air at a foe. Attempt a High Jump or Long Jump. If you attempt a High Jump, determine the distance you can travel using the scale of a Long Jump. At the end of your jump, you can make a melee Strike.

After your Strike, you fall to the ground if you’re in the air. If the distance of your fall is no more than the height of your jump, you take no damage and land upright.

Felling Shot:
Actions: 2
Traits: Rogue

Your ranged attacks can shoot an unprepared foe right out of the air. Make a Strike with a ranged weapon or a thrown weapon against a flat-footed creature. If the Strike is a success and deals damage, the target must attempt a Reflex save against your class DC with the following effects.

Success: The target is unaffected.
Failure: The target falls up to 120 feet. If it hits the ground, it takes no damage from the fall.
Critical Failure: As failure, and the target can't fly, jump, levitate, or otherwise leave the ground until the end of your next turn.

Reactive Interference:
Actions: Reaction
Traits: Rogue

Trigger: An adjacent enemy begins to use a reaction.

Grabbing a sleeve, swiping with your weapon, or creating another obstruction, you reflexively foil an enemy’s response. If the triggering creature’s level is equal to or lower than yours, you disrupt the triggering reaction. If the triggering creature’s level is higher than yours, you must make an attack roll against its AC. On a success, you disrupt the reaction.

Spring From The Shadows:
Actions: 1
Traits: Flourish, Rogue

Leaping out from hiding, you assail your target when they least expect it. You Stride up to your Speed, but you must end your movement next to an enemy you’re hidden from or undetected by. You then Strike that enemy; you remain hidden from or undetected by that creature until after you Strike. You can use Spring from the Shadows while Burrowing, Climbing, Flying, or Swimming instead of Striding if you have the corresponding movement type.

Bloodline Focus:
Prerequisites: bloodline spell

Your focus recovers faster. If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points since the last time you Refocused, you recover 2 Focus Points when you Refocus instead of 1.

Magic Sense:
You have a literal sixth sense for ambient magic in your vicinity. You can sense the presence of magic auras as though you were always using a 1st-level detect magic spell. This detects magic in your field of vision only. When you Seek, you gain the benefits of a 3rd-level detect magic spell on things you see (in addition to the normal benefits of Seeking). You can turn this sense off and on with a free action at the start or the end of your turn.

Special: This feat has the trait corresponding to the tradition of spells you cast (arcane, divine, occult, or primal).

Clever Counterspell:
Prerequisites: Counterspell; Quick Recognition

You creatively apply your prepared spells to Counterspell a much wider variety of your opponents’ magic. Instead of being able to counter a foe’s spell with Counterspell only if you have that same spell prepared, you can use Counterspell as long as you have the spell the foe is casting in your spellbook. When you use Counterspell in this way, the prepared spell you expend must share a trait other than its tradition with the triggering spell. At the GM’s discretion, you can instead use a spell that has an opposing trait or that otherwise logically would counter the triggering spell (such as using a cold or water spell to counter fireball or using remove fear to counter a fear spell). Regardless of what spell you expend, you take a –2 penalty to your counteract check, though the GM can waive this penalty if the expended spell is especially appropriate.